---
title: Goals are not strategy
date: 2022-04-28 08:00:00 +01:00
tags: [strategy]
description: Shell adalah sebuah command-line interpreter; program yang berperan sebagai penerjemah perintah yang diinputkan oleh User yang melalui terminal, sehingga perintah tersebut bisa dimengerti oleh si Kernel.
image:
---

There are many opinions about what strategy is and how to do it well. So many in fact, that it’s easy to get confused. At least I’ve been confused about it. Researching online is not much help either. Often, people don't know where to draw the line between mission, vision, goals, objectives, and strategy. That’s why – for my own benefit if nothing else – I decided to write-up a simple and actionable description of what it is.

My take on strategy draws on the Situation-Complication-Resolution (SCR) framework by McKinsey and definitions from the book Good Strategy/Bad Strategy by Richard Rumelt, along with my own experiences on the matter.

I’ve noticed that goals are most often mistaken for strategy, and though they may be important, they are nothing but wishful thinking without a proper plan; one that clearly and specifically defines the obstacle of a situation and outlines a set of coordinated actions to deal with that obstacle.

A good strategy consists of four elements; 1) Situation, 2) Obstacle, 3) Approach, 4) Actions.


### Situation
First, you must describe the circumstances you find yourself in. They might be self-imposed - such as a goal - or the result of things outside your control, like changing consumer preferences. The common denominator is that they describe circumstances outside your direct control; an outcome rather than a cause.

Example: Customer satisfaction has dropped 15%


### Obstacle
Next, you must identify the reason for the situation; i.e. the obstacle which is preventing you from reaching a more favorable state. You can do so by asking 'why' and keep doing that until you reach the core reason for the situation. The trick is to not go so far that your obstacle becomes a solution; or not far enough, that your obstacle remains a ‘situation’. As an example, ‘Underperformance’ is not an obstacle; that’s an outcome of your obstacle.

Customer satisfaction has dropped 15% — Why? — Because the quality of our product has decreased — Why? — Because we’ve neglected maintenance on our machines

Example: Lack of maintenance on our machines


### Approach 
The next step is to start describing the solution to your obstacle. The approach describes as a one-liner, the outcome of what ever actions you'll be taking to address the obstacle. It should be specific enough to focus and align those subsequent actions.

Example: Improve and maintain the condition of our machinery


### Actions 
As a final element of your strategy, you must describe the specific actions which leads to the outcome described by your approach. The actions should be coordinated and support each other towards the same outcome.

Example: 1) Hire two technicians, 2) Define protocols for maintenance and inspection


Upon returning to Apple in [year], Steve Jobs gave an excellent speech to employees where he outlined Apple’s new strategy. The video is uploaded to highlight the brilliance of Job’s marketing strategy, but the first part is equally brilliant too. Here, he presents two new strategies addressing product and distribution, before moving on to marketing. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MrZKoWgcZVg 



## Common mistakes

### Complexity. 

A strategy using inflated words and complex ideas, does nothing but create the illusion of strategic thinking. In reality, it's all fluff and no substance. A good strategy is achieved not by adding things, but by removing anything unnecessary and have the essentials stand out.

### Failure to face the real obstacle.

It's important to honestly define the obstacle. If you don't, chances are that you will be working on the wrong things or not allow for the best solution to emerge.

### Mistaking goals for strategy.

Many bad strategies are just statements of desire rather than plans for overcoming obstacles.

### Lack of focus.

Focus creates a the shared purpose and direction within a team, which is necessary to make meaningful progress. A strategy without focus is the same as treading water — it won’t get you anywhere. And what is focus then? Many people think that focus is about saying ‘yes’ to things, but in reality it’s about everything you say ‘no’ to. A strategy that doesn’t enable people to know what to say ‘no’ to, is not a good strategy.

Strategy is focus, and focus is saying no. Once again, Steve Jobs made an excellent point on the matter.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H8eP99neOVs 

### Analysis paralysis. 

The world is infinitely complex so describing any part of your strategy with 100% accuracy and certainty is both impossible and counterproductive. You should aim to just get close enough to reality and adjust later as you become wiser.


## Weigh-in for buy-in

A perfectly defined strategy is worth nothing, if the people responsible for carrying it out doesn’t buy into it. Therefore, the implementation of your strategy begins when you start defining it. This doesn’t mean that you should build a strategy that everyone agrees with — that would likely backfire and create a strategy which fails to address the real obstacle or lack the focus to be effective. Instead, you ask questions and test your hypotheses with the people closest to the obstacle and potential solution. Research shows that people are much more likely to accept decisions which are not their own, if they have had their voices heard.

https://hbr.org/2003/01/fair-process-managing-in-the-knowledge-economy 
